this is the finger style warm-ups
tutorial part 5 in this segment we'll
look at using single notes to do a
warm-up thing for parades both the right
and the left hand
we'll start by learning a scale that
goes two octaves this is the C major
scale and it uses two different
positions you can see there's kind of an
unusual shift there in the middle so
let's look at this scale and then we'll
apply the right hand to it we start out
second finger on the third fret the
fifth string fourth finger on the fifth
fret of the fifth string going to the
first finger on the second fret of the
fourth string second finger on the third
fret of the fourth string fourth finger
on the fifth fret of the fourth string
going to the first finger on the second
fret of the third string third finger to
the fourth fret of the third string here
comes our unusual shift we're going to
take the first finger all the way up to
the fifth fret of the third string third
finger to the seventh fret of the third
string then first finger on the fifth
fret of the second string second finger
to the sixth fret on the second string
fourth finger to the eighth fret the
second string first finger on the fifth
fret first string third finger on the
seventh fret first string and fourth
finger on the eighth fret first string
when we come back down it'll be exactly
the opposite when we get here to this
shift well once again had the third
finger on the seventh fret third string
first finger on the fifth fret third
string then when we shift the third
finger will end up on the fourth fret
third string and the first finger will
end up on the second fret third string
well the right hand application with
this is to alternate our fingers that's
just like alternate picking if you play
with a pick on acoustic or electric
guitar so when we're alternating our
fingers it's very important to go index
finger middle finger index finger middle
finger no matter whether we're crossing
strings or doing our doing a melodic
line we always want to use alternate
fingers so to do that a good way to
start is to play for tacks on each note
that'll give you a chance to think about
the next note you have to play but also
to not have to make some weird changes
between strings so we would go index
middle index middle on each string
so you can practice that so you could
come with the scale and then alternate
the fingers completely going through the
scale
and you can repeat that very slowly over
and over but that will give your fingers
a good feel for alternating between the
strings
so hello there i'm kim ritchie and now
i'll play the entire song for you and
it's called a place called home
and I'll show you about the picking
pattern there's some it's gonna pick the
base don't
go like this yeah seems like so
Oh